# DSCI_COMPLETE

## Project Introduction

According to the World Health Organization, heart diseases are the leading cause of death worldwide, and make up 17.9 million deaths each year, 32% of all deaths globally (“Cardiovascular Diseases”). In Canada, about 1 in 12 adults aged 20 and over are diagnosed with heart disease (Public Health Agency of Canada). It is therefore essential to study the causes and consequences of cardiovascular diseases to better understand these numbers and hopefully reduce them. An unhealthy diet, tobacco and alcohol use, obesity, as well as a lack of physical activity are the most important behavioral risk factors leading to heart disease (“Cardiovascular Diseases”). These risk factors, along with age, electrocardiogram results, and chest pain will influence a patient’s cardiovascular prognosis. It is important to diagnose heart disease early on in order to commence treatment plans and prevent more severe illnesses. It has also been found that men are twice as likely to suffer a heart attack than women (Public Health Agency of Canada). Therefore, this classification aims to predict whether a male patient is at risk of heart disease based on their age, type of chest pain, and resting electrocardiogram results. It is hypothesized that the impacts of these aforementioned trends on heart disease diagnosis will be shown when analyzing the health data of new patients. The University of California’s Heart Disease Dataset has been sourced from mostly older male patients and measures several health variables and corresponding heart disease diagnosis, ranging from none to high chances of heart disease, on a scale from 0 to 4. This dataset will be used to create a classification model to make new diagnosis.
